# 5 things to consider about Huns

> Source: Travian: Legends Support  
> URL: https://support.travian.com/en/articles/147-5-things-to-consider-about-huns

---

Huns are born horse riders. Legends say that they learn how to ride before they start walking, and this is true also for Travian: Legends. So, if you pick Huns as your primary tribe, focus on their strength, which is horses!

1. Only Huns and Gauls have 4 cavalry units in their army. For Huns those are Spotters, Steppe Riders, Marksmen and Marauders. And only Huns have 3 attacking cavalry units. On top of that, Hun Spotters are the fastest spying unit in the game. Cheap and ultra-fast, they provide essential info to the farming troops where they can find valuable resources. That means that by design Huns are supposed to be an attacking tribe with a good income from farming. If you are a pure defensive player and you do not consider getting any resources from farming, then perhaps, you’d rather pick another tribe, which has better defensive values and/or has other advantages: Gauls or Egyptians.
2. Experienced Hun players that base their development on farming normally have a separate farming village (sometimes more than one). Based on the farming strategy they picked, this can be either a Steppe Rider village (cheapest and fastest farming Hun unit), or a Marksmen village (in addition to farming, marksmen can be used as a fast mobile defence) or a fully universal Steppe Rider + Marksman + Marauder village. Why so? See our next hint!
3. Since Huns are the only tribe which have 3 cavalry attacking units, they are using some tricks how to farm oases with minimal losses. A combination of 1 steppe rider, 1 marksman and 1 marauder (without any upgrades) is effective against nature troops up to 410 of combined strength. This is, for example, 20 rats or 2 bears. (400 defence against cavalry + 10 own defence of oasis), which those 3 units can kill without a single loss. This trick lets experienced Hun players be on top of the weekly robbers ranking and saves some costs early game!
4. Finally, what about defence?  Can a Hun player be a successful defender? This is more than possible, yes. One of the most successful defenders I met in the game were Huns. Hun Hero ability (+3 to the speed of an army if the hero is accompanied only with mounted units) lets Hun mobile defence be one of the fastest in the game. This ability is especially useful on multi-tribe gameworlds with a feature “keep tribe on conquer”.
5. Huns are very well suited to play so-called hybrid accounts. A hybrid account is an account that executes equally both parts of the game – good offensive values with a considerable defence. A mercenary & marksmen army provides this option. Even though neither mercenaries, nor marksmen excel in any form of combat, being a bit behind similar units with clear specialization, they are good enough to be used for any type of action: offence, defence and farming. Playing hybrid is a widespread practice currently in the Travian: Legends worlds. Players even invented a special term for all-rounder armies – the Hamvil. It’s an acronym from hammer (attacking army) and anvil (defensive army).

To sum up, Huns are a great tribe for those players that like to be active in the game. Their main advantage is speed, their unique abilities (command centre that provides 3 chiefing slots in every village) make them great conquerors. They might not be the best option for totally new players, but this tribe can give players a lot of fun in any aspect of the game!
